# Graph Analysis

Using the completed markup of both War and Peace and "Natasha, Pierre, and the Great Comet of 1812", we were able to further our comparative research of the novel (book eight, specifically) and the musical. This graph represents the percentage of character references (excluding pronouns) in both works. As far as can be presumed by the data collected, both the novel and the musical put similar emphasis on the main characters in each story. This research assists the theory that book eight of War and Peace and "The Great Comet of 1812" follows a similar plot. 

The most glaring observation that can be made from this chart is how often Natasha and Pierre are referenced in the musical compared to the book. While the book seems to more evenly spread out the importance of each character, the musical more heavily focuses on Natasha and Pierre. Hence the official name of the musical “Natasha (our most significant character), Pierre (our second most significant character), and The Great Comet (not currently established as character role)”.

Anatole stands out as well as a significant character in the musical. Anatole and Pierre are referenced evenly, but when looking at the novel, we can see that Anatole is referenced much more than Pierre. This could be interpreted as Anatole taking on a larger role in the musical, Pierre having a smaller role in the book, or both. This question could have a more precise answer, should the research have focused on pronouns and all spoken actions (not just when referenced by name) (see limitations).

As seen in the key, the blue bars represent the musical and the red bars represent the book. At first glance, most blue bars appear to be taller than their book counterpart, the red bars. This applies to nearly all the characters, save for one. Balaga is the only character who appears more often in the book than in the musical. This can be attributed to Balaga not being often referenced in the musical, save for the first song where he is introduced. “Balaga’s just for fun!” implies that his character carries no true weight to the musical and is just for comedic value. In the novel, Balaga’s character carries more depth and contributes more to the plot of the story. 

LIMITATIONS: We do acknowledge that there are limitations to our findings. First, since we did not include pronouns in the conduction of our markup in either the book or the musical, this cannot lead to a 100% accurate display of the data. Second, this data does not display characters that might have been in a scene or spoken to directly without the mention of their name. Instances of this occur in the book and the musical, but based on the markup we conducted, we would have no way of knowing when this could take place. 

