<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Wiki</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/text_display.css" />
        <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <!--#include virtual="text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
        <div class="main">
            <h2>Welcome to the text page!</h2>
            <div class="flex-container">
                <div class="flex-child">
                    <h4 class="flex-header">War and Peace</h4>
                    <p class="flex-para">Here, you will see passages from Tolstoy’s War and Peace
                        that correlate with lyrics from the musical. When you click on one, the
                        section of the lyrics that draw from that passage will be highlighted!</p>
                    <p class="flex-para">You’ll notice that the song “Prologue” has nothing in this
                        section. This is because “Prologue” is an introduction to the characters, so
                        it’s not drawn directly from War and Peace. Since Great Comet is placed in
                        the middle of the novel, the creators of the musical made this song to
                        familiarize the audience with the characters to get the context a reader
                        would’ve gotten from reading the first bit of the novel.</p>
                </div>
                <div class="flex-child">
                    <h4 class="flex-header">Great Comet</h4>
                    <p class="flex-para">Here, you will see lyrics from Great Comet. When you click
                        on a lyric that is associated with a passage from War and Peace, the
                        opposite section will scroll to that reference, so you will be able to read
                        it and see exactly how similar they are! You’ll be surprised at how much
                        they resemble each other.</p>                
                </div>
            </div>
            <h4>&lt;-- Click a song on the sidebar to get started!</h4>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
