<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref131">All take glasses; you too, Balagá. Well, comrades
                  and friends of my youth, we’ve had our fling and lived and reveled. Eh? And now,
                  when shall we meet again? I am going abroad. We have had a good time—now farewell,
                  lads! To our health! Hurrah!... he cried, and emptying his glass flung it on the
                  floor.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref132">No, stop! said Anatole. Shut the door; we have
                  first to sit down. That’s the way.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref133">And where’s the fur cloak? asked Dólokhov. Hey,
                  Ignátka! Go to Matrëna Matrévna and ask her for the sable cloak. I have heard what
                  elopements are like, continued Dólokhov with a wink. Why, she’ll rush out more
                  dead than alive just in the things she is wearing; if you delay at all there’ll be
                  tears and Papa and Mamma, and she’s frozen in a minute and must go back—but you
                  wrap the fur cloak round her first thing and carry her to the sleigh.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref134">That’s the way, said Dólokhov</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref135">Well, good-by, Matrëna, said Anatole, kissing
                  her. Ah, my revels here are over. Remember me to Stëshka. There, good-by! Good-by,
                  Matrëna, wish me luck!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref136">Go! he cried, twisting the reins round his hands,
                  and the troyka tore down the Nikítski Boulevard.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref137">When they reached the gate Dólokhov whistled. The
                  whistle was answered, and a maidservant ran out. Come into the courtyard or you’ll
                  be seen; she’ll come out directly, said she. Dólokhov stayed by the gate. Anatole
                  followed the maid into the courtyard, turned the corner, and ran up into the
                  porch. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref138">Kurágin! Come back! shouted Dólokhov. Betrayed!
                  Back!</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>The Abduction</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: ANATOLE, ALL, PIERRE, DOLOKHOV, BALAGA,
                  MAIDSERVANT, MARYA D</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Everyone raise a glass! Whoa...<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref131">Well, comrades<br /> We’ve had our fun<br /> Lived,
                     laughed and loved<br /> Friends of my youth<br /> When shall we meet
                     again?<br /> I’m going abroad<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref135">Goodbye my Gypsy lovers<br /> All my revels here are
                     over<br /> Well, goodbye, Matryosha<br /> Kiss me one last time, whoa<br />
                     Remember me to Steshka<br /> There, goodbye, goodbye, goodbye<br /> Wish me
                     luck my Gypsy lovers<br /> Now goodbye, goodbye, goodbye<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref135">Goodbye my Gypsy lovers<br /> All my revels here are
                     over<br /> Well, goodbye, Matryosha<br /> Kiss me one last time, whoa<br />
                     Remember me to Steshka<br /> There, goodbye, goodbye, goodbye<br /> Wish me
                     luck my Gypsy lovers<br /> Now goodbye, goodbye, goodbye<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Now drink!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hurrah!<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref131">Smash the glasses on the floor!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">They dance.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!<br /> Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">They dance more. Pierre drunkenly raises a glass.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!<br /> Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Whoa!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Here’s to happiness, freedom, and life!<br /> May
                  your travel be swift as a scythe cuts through the grass!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Whoa...<br /> Whoa...<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> May your sorrows be counted and numbered as
                  many<br /> As drops of wine and vodka that stay in my glass!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Whoa...<br /> Whoa...<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Vsego horoshego<br /> Na pososhok<br /> Poekhali<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Vsego horoshego<br /> Na pososhok<br />
                  Poekhali<br /> Vsego horoshego<br /> Na pososhok<br /> Poekhali<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Vsego horoshego<br /> Na pososhok<br />
                  Poekhali<br /> Na pososhok!<br /> Poekhali!<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Come on, let’s go!...<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">They start to leave.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref132">Wait, wait, wait!<br /> Shut the door!<br /> First we have
                     to sit down!<br /> Yes, that’s the way<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> It’s a Russian custom<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">They shut the door and all sit down for a moment.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> All right<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">They start to leave.</p>




               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref133">Wait, wait, wait, wait!<br /> Where’s the fur cloak?<br />
                     Huh?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref133">I have heard what elopements are like<br /> She’ll rush
                     out more dead than alive<br /> Just in the things she is wearing<br /> If you
                     delay at all, there’ll be tears and “Papa” and “Mama”<br /> And she’s frozen in
                     a minute and must go back<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref133">But you wrap the fur cloak 'round her<br /> And you carry
                     her to the sleigh<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref134">That’s the way<br /> That’s the way<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref134">That’s the way<br /> That’s the way<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[BALAGA]<br /> Let’s get outta here!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[BALAGA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref136">And the troika tore down Nikitski Boulevard<br />
                  </span> Whoa! Giddyup, now! Whoa! Whoa!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hey Balaga<br /> Ho Balaga<br /> Hey hey ho
                  Balaga<br /> Hey hey Balaga<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref130">The famous troika driver<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hey Balaga<br /> Ho Balaga<br /> Hey hey hey
                  Balaga<br /> Hey hey Balaga<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref130">The famous troika driver<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref137">When they reached the gate Dolokhov whistled<br /> The
                     whistle was answered, and a maidservant ran out<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MAIDSERVANT]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref137">Come in through the courtyard or you’ll be seen; she’ll
                     come out directly<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref137"><span class="self">Dolokhov stayed by the gate<br />
                     </span>
                     <span class="other">Anatole followed the maid into the courtyard<br /> Turned
                        the corner, ran up to the porch<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">Anatole is stopped by Marya D.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> You will not enter my house, scoundrel!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref138">Anatole, come back!<br /> Betrayed! Betrayed!<br />
                     Betrayed, Anatole! Betrayed!<br /> Come back!<br /> Betrayed, Anatole!
                     Betrayed! Betrayed!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Dolokhov rushes in and rescues Anatole. They flee.</p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
