<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref75">You know, I adore little girls, they lose their
                  heads at once, pursued Anatole.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref88">Anatole was at the door, evidently on the lookout
                  for the Rostóvs.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref89">As soon as she saw him she was seized by the same
                  feeling she had had at the opera—gratified vanity at his admiration of her and
                  fear at the absence of a moral barrier between them.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref90">Adorable! divine! delicious! was heard from every
                  side. Natásha looked at the fat actress, but neither saw nor heard nor understood
                  anything of what went on before her. She only felt herself again completely borne
                  away into this strange senseless world—so remote from her old world—a world in
                  which it was impossible to know what was good or bad, reasonable or senseless.
                  Behind her sat Anatole, and conscious of his proximity she experienced a
                  frightened sense of expectancy.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref91">He said this at a moment when she alone could hear
                  him. You are enchanting... from the moment I saw you I have never ceased...</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref92">Anatole asked Natásha for a valse and as they
                  danced he pressed her waist and hand and told her she was bewitching and that he
                  loved her. During the écossaise, which she also danced with him, Anatole said
                  nothing when they happened to be by themselves, but merely gazed at her. Natásha
                  lifted her frightened eyes to him, but there was such confident tenderness in his
                  affectionate look and smile that she could not, whilst looking at him, say what
                  she had to say. She lowered her eyes.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref93">Don’t say such things to me. I am betrothed and
                  love another, she said rapidly.... She glanced at him.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref94">Don’t speak to me of that! What can I do? said he.
                  I tell you I am madly, madly, in love with you! Is it my fault that you are
                  enchanting?... It’s our turn to begin.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref95">Natásha, animated and excited, looked about her
                  with wide-open frightened eyes and seemed merrier than usual. She understood
                  hardly anything that went on that evening. They danced the écossaise and the
                  Grossvater.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref96">I cannot come to visit you but is it possible that
                  I shall never see you? I love you madly. Can I never...? and, blocking her path,
                  he brought his face close to hers. His large, glittering, masculine eyes were so
                  close to hers that she saw nothing but them. Natalie? he whispered inquiringly
                  while she felt her hands being painfully pressed. Natalie? I don’t understand. I
                  have nothing to say, her eyes replied.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref97">Burning lips were pressed to hers, and at the same
                  instant she felt herself released, and Hélène’s footsteps and the rustle of her
                  dress were heard in the room. Natásha looked round at her, and then, red and
                  trembling, threw a frightened look of inquiry at Anatole and moved toward the
                  door.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref98">She paused. She so wanted a word from him that
                  would explain to her what had happened and to which she could find no answer.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref99">After reaching home Natásha did not sleep all
                  night. She was tormented by the insoluble question whether she loved Anatole or
                  Prince Andrew. She loved Prince Andrew—she remembered distinctly how deeply she
                  loved him. But she also loved Anatole, of that there was no doubt. Else how could
                  all this have happened? thought she. If, after that, I could return his smile when
                  saying good-by, if I was able to let it come to that, it means that I loved him
                  from the first. It means that he is kind, noble, and splendid, and I could not
                  help loving him.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>The Ball</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: ANATOLE, NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref88"><span class="self">Waiting at the door<br /> Waiting at the
                        door, waiting<br /> Waiting at the door<br /> Waiting at the door,
                        waiting<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="wp-ref75">Oh, how I adore little girls<br /> They lose their heads at
                     once!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">The ball begins; they dance.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref89"><span class="self">I am seized by feelings of vanity and
                        fear<br />
                     </span> There is no barrier between us<br />
                  </span> Whispers and moans, and ringing in my ear<br /> There is no barrier
                  between us<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref90">Divine, delicious, but I do not see or hear anything<br />
                     I'm borne away to a senseless world<br /> So strange, so remote<br /> I don't
                     know good from bad<br /> Anatole<br /> Anatole<br /> I'm so frightened<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref91">You are enchanting<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">And as we danced<br />
                     <span class="other">He pressed my waist and hand<br /> And told me I was<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">Bewitching<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">And I love you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">Bewitching<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">And I love you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">And during the ecossaise, he<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92"><span class="other">Gazed/(Gaze) in my eyes<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">And said nothing, just<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92"><span class="other">Gazed/(Gaze) in my eyes<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref92">My frightened eyes<br /> Such confident tenderness<br /> I
                     could not say what I had to say<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Don't lower your eyes<br /> I love you<br /> I
                  am in love, dear<br /> I am in love<br /> Gaze in my eyes<br /> I love you<br />
                  You are bewitching<br /> What can I do<br /> Darling, what can I do?<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref93">Don't say such things<br /> I am betrothed<br /> I love
                     another<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref94">Don't speak to me of that!<br /> When I tell you that I am
                     madly, madly in love with you!<br /> Is it my fault that you're
                     enchanting?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref95">I'm so frightened<br /> I don't understand anything
                     tonight<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> I'm here now<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">Natasha breaks away.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Natalie!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> I can feel your eyes upon me<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96"><span class="self">Blocking her path, I bring her face
                        close to mine<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96">His large, glittering, masculine eyes are so close to
                     mine<br /> That I see nothing else<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96">Is it possible that I should never see you again?<br /> I
                     love you madly!<br /> Can I never?<br /> Natalie?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="other">You press my arm<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96">Natalie?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> You're hurting my hands!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96">Natalie?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref96">I don't understand<br /> I have nothing to say<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">They kiss.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref97">Burning lips pressed to mine<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref98">Tell me what just happened<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref97"><span class="self">I'm trembling<br />
                     </span> So frightening<br />
                  </span> Andrey<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref99">But I love you<br /> Of that there is no doubt<br /> How
                     else could all of this have happened?<br /> How else could we have
                     kissed?<br /> It means that I have loved you from the first<br /> It means that
                     you are kind<br /> Noble and splendid<br /> And I could not help loving
                     you<br />
                  </span> I will love you, Anatole<br /> I'll do anything for you<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, ANATOLE]<br /> I'll do anything for you<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
