<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref154">When he returned to Moscow Pierre was handed a
                  letter from Márya Dmítrievna asking him to come and see her on a matter of great
                  importance relating to Andrew Bolkónski and his betrothed.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref155">What can have happened? And what can they want
                  with me? thought he as he dressed to go to Márya Dmítrievna’s.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref157">Márya Dmítrievna informed him that Natásha had
                  refused Prince Andrew without her parents’ knowledge and that the cause of this
                  was Anatole Kurágin into whose society Pierre’s wife had thrown her and with whom
                  Natásha had tried to elope during her father’s absence, in order to be married
                  secretly.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref158">Pierre raised his shoulders and listened
                  open-mouthed to what was told him, scarcely able to believe his own ears. That
                  Prince Andrew’s deeply loved affianced wife—the same Natásha Rostóva who used to
                  be so charming—should give up Bolkónski for that fool Anatole who was already
                  secretly married (as Pierre knew), and should be so in love with him as to agree
                  to run away with him, was something Pierre could not conceive and could not
                  imagine.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref159">They are all alike! he said to himself,
                  reflecting that he was not the only man unfortunate enough to be tied to a bad
                  woman. But still he pitied Prince Andrew to the point of tears and sympathized
                  with his wounded pride, and the more he pitied his friend the more did he think
                  with contempt and even with disgust of that Natásha who had just passed him in the
                  ballroom with such a look of cold dignity.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref160">Natásha looked from one to the other as a hunted
                  and wounded animal looks at the approaching dogs and sportsmen.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref161">She was afraid that the count or Bolkónski, who
                  might arrive at any moment, if they knew of this affair (which she hoped to hide
                  from them) might challenge Anatole to a duel, and she therefore asked Pierre to
                  tell his brother-in-law in her name to leave Moscow and not dare to let her set
                  eyes on him again. Pierre—only now realizing the danger to the old count,
                  Nicholas, and Prince Andrew—promised to do as she wished.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>A Call To Pierre</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, SERVANT, MARYA D</p>



               <p class="flex-para">A servant hands a letter to Pierre.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SERVANT]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref154">A letter from Marya Dmitryevna asking you to come and
                     visit her<br /> On a matter of great importance<br /> Relating to Andrey
                     Bolkonsky and his betrothed<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref155">What?<br /> What can they want with me?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">He arrives at Marya D.’s.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Pierre, old friend I’m sorry it’s late<br /> I’m
                  sorry I haven’t seen you about<br /> Where have you been?<br /> Where have you been?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> I have been studying<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Pierre old friend, we need your help<br />
                  Pierre old friend: the family name!<br /> We need your help<br /> We need your
                  help<br /> There’s ruin at the door<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Marya?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Natasha has let down the family<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> What?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref157">Natasha has broken with Andrey<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> What?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref157">Natasha has tried to elope<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> What?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref157">Natasha and Anatole Kuragin!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> What?!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> We need your help<br /> We need your help<br />
                  There’s ruin at the door<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref158">Natasha, that charming girl?<br /> I can’t believe my
                     ears<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref159">So I am not the only man<br /> Chained to a bad
                     woman<br />
                  </span> And Anatole, that stupid child<br /> They’ll lock him up for years<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref158">For Anatole is a married man!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Married? He’s married?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Yes<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Oh wait ’til I tell her<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref158">Poor Andrey<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref161">And when Andrey comes home<br /> He will challenge Anatole
                     to a duel<br /> And get himself killed<br /> And all will be ruined<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref161">You must go see your brother-in-law<br /> And tell him
                     that he must leave Moscow<br /> And not dare to let me set my eyes on him
                     again<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> At once<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
