<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref58"> How is it you’re not ashamed to bury such pearls
                  in the country? </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref59">Countess Bezúkhova quite deserved her reputation
                  of being a fascinating woman. She could say what she did not think—especially what
                  was flattering—quite simply and naturally.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref81">Oh, my enchantress! she cried to the blushing
                  Natásha. Charming! No, this is really beyond anything, my dear count, said she to
                  Count Rostóv who had followed her in. How can you live in Moscow and go
                  nowhere?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref82">She looked at Natásha’s dresses and praised them,
                  as well as a new dress of her own made of metallic gauze, which she had received
                  from Paris, and advised Natásha to have one like it.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref83">But anything suits you, my charmer! she
                  remarked.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref84">The idea of throwing her brother and Natásha
                  together amused her.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref85"> My brother dined with me yesterday—we nearly died
                  of laughter—he ate nothing and kept sighing for you, my charmer! He is madly,
                  quite madly, in love with you, my dear. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref86">How she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty! said
                  Hélène. You must certainly come. If you love somebody, my charmer, that is not a
                  reason to shut yourself up. Even if you are engaged, I am sure your fiancé would
                  wish you to go into society rather than be bored to death.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref87">So she knows I am engaged, and she and her husband
                  Pierre—that good Pierre—have talked and laughed about this. So it’s all right. And
                  again, under Hélène’s influence, what had seemed terrible now seemed simple and
                  natural. And she is such a grande dame, so kind, and evidently likes me so much.
                  And why not enjoy myself? thought Natásha, gazing at Hélène with wide-open,
                  wondering eyes.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Charming</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: HÉLÈNE, NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref81"> Oh my enchantress<br /> Oh you beautiful thing<br />
                     Charming, charming<br />
                  </span> Oh, this is really beyond anything<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref82"> These dresses suit you<br /> This one, “metallic
                     gauze”<br /> Straight from Paris<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref83"> Anything suits you, my charmer<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref86"> Oh how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br /> Oh
                     how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante!<br /> You are such a lovely thing<br /> Oh where
                  have you been?<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref58"> It’s such a shame to bury pearls in the country<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante, charming<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> Now if you have a dress<br /> You must wear it out<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref81"> How can you live in Moscow and not go nowhere?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref86"> So you love somebody, charming<br /> But that’s no reason
                     to shut yourself in<br /> Even if you’re engaged<br />
                  </span> You must wear your dress out somewhere<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref85"> My brother dined with me yesterday<br /> But he didn’t eat
                     a thing<br /> Cuz he was thinking ’bout you<br /> He kept sighing about
                     you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref86"> Oh how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br /> Oh
                     how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante!<br /> You are such a lovely thing<br /> Oh where
                  have you been?<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref58"> It’s such a shame to bury pearls in the country<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante, charming<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> Now a woman with a dress<br /> Is a frightening
                  and powerful thing<br /> You are not a child<br /> When you’re draped in scarlet
                  and lace<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref86"> Your fiancé would want you to have fun<br /> Rather than
                     be bored to death<br />
                  </span> Alliez dans le monde<br /> Plutôt que de dépérir d’ennui!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref85"> My brother is quite madly in love<br /> He is quite madly
                     in love with you, my dear<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref86"> Oh how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br /> Oh
                     how she blushes, how she blushes, my pretty!!<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante!<br /> You are such a lovely thing<br /> Oh where
                  have you been?<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref58"> It’s such a shame to bury pearls in the country<br />
                  </span> Charmante, charmante, charming<br /> Such a shame to bury pearls in the
                  country<br /> Charmante, charmante, charming<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref87">What once seemed so terrible<br /> Now seems simple and
                     natural<br /> She knows that I’m engaged<br /> And still she talks so
                     frankly<br /> So it must be all right!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> There is a ball at my house tonight<br /> You
                  must come<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref87">Oh your wide-open, wondering eyes!<br />
                  </span> You will be the prettiest there!<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref84"> How the thought of throwing them together amuses me!<br />
                  </span> You must come<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> I will come<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
