<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 4 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref213">Such a storm of feelings, thoughts, and memories
                  suddenly arose within him that he could not fall asleep, nor even remain in one
                  place, but had to jump up and pace the room with rapid steps.</p>
               <hr />
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 2 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref214">You see, my fwiend, he said, we sleep when we
                  don’t love. We are childwen of the dust... but one falls in love and one is a God,
                  one is pua’ as on the fihst day of cweation... Who’s that now? Send him to the
                  devil, I’m busy! he shouted to Lavrúshka, who went up to him not in the least
                  abashed.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Dust and Ashes</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Is this how I die?<br /> Ridiculed and laughed
                  at<br /> Wearing clown shoes<br /> Is this how I die?<br /> Furious and
                  reckless<br /> Sick with booze<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> How did I live?<br /> I taste every wasted
                  minute<br /> Every time I turned away<br /> From the things that might have healed
                  me<br /> How long have I been sleeping?<br /> Is this how I die?<br /> Frightened
                  like a child<br /> Lazy and numb<br /> Is this how I die?<br /> Pretending and
                  preposterous<br /> And dumb<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> How did I live?<br /> Was I kind enough and good
                  enough?<br /> Did I love enough?<br /> Did I ever look up<br /> And see the
                  moon<br /> And the stars<br /> And the sky?<br /> Oh why have I been sleeping?<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref214">They say we are asleep<br /> Until we fall in love<br />
                  </span> We are children of dust and ashes<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref214">But when we fall in love we wake up<br />
                  </span> And we are a God<br /> And angels weep<br /> But if I die here
                  tonight<br /> I die in my sleep<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> All of my life I spent searching the words<br />
                  Of poets and saints and prophets and kings<br /> And now at the end all I know
                  that I’ve learned<br /> Is that all that I know is I don’t know a thing<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> So easy to close off<br /> Place the blame
                  outside<br /> Hiding in my room at night<br /> So terrified<br /> All the things I
                  could have been<br /> But I never had the nerve<br /> Life and love<br /> I don’t deserve<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> So all right, all right<br /> I’ve had my
                  time<br /> Close my eyes<br /> Let the death bells chime<br /> Bury me in
                  burgundy<br /> I just don’t care<br /> Nothing’s left<br /> I looked everywhere<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Is this how I die?<br /> Was there ever any other
                  way my life could be?<br /> Is this how I die?<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref213">Such a storm of feelings inside of me?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> But then why am I screaming?<br /> Why am I
                  shaking?<br /> Oh God, was there something that I missed?<br /> Did I squander my
                  divinity?<br /> Was happiness within me the whole time?<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref214">They say we are asleep<br /> Until we fall in love<br />
                  </span> We are children of dust and ashes<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref214">But when we fall in love we wake up<br />
                  </span> And we are a God<br /> And angels weep<br /> But if I die here
                  tonight<br /> I die in my sleep<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref214">They say we are asleep<br /> Until we fall in love<br />
                  </span> And I’m so ready<br /> To wake up now<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> I want to wake up<br /> Don’t let me die while
                  I’m like this<br /> I want to wake up<br /> God don’t let me die while I’m like
                  this<br /> Please let me wake up now<br /> God don’t let me die while I’m like
                  this<br /> I’m ready<br /> I’m ready<br /> To wake up<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
