<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref162">He drove through the town seeking Anatole
                  Kurágin, at the thought of whom now the blood rushed to his heart and he felt a
                  difficulty in breathing. He was not at the ice hills, nor at the gypsies’, nor at
                  Komoneno’s. Pierre drove to the Club. In the Club all was going on as usual. The
                  members who were assembling for dinner were sitting about in groups; they greeted
                  Pierre and spoke of the town news.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref163">One of Pierre’s acquaintances, while they were
                  talking about the weather, asked if he had heard of Kurágin’s abduction of Rostóva
                  which was talked of in the town, and was it true? Pierre laughed and said it was
                  nonsense for he had just come from the Rostóvs’.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref164">It seemed to him essential to see Natásha. In the
                  evening he drove to his sister’s to discuss with her how to arrange a meeting.
                  When Pierre returned home after vainly hunting all over Moscow, his valet informed
                  him that Prince Anatole was with the countess.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref165">Pierre without greeting his wife whom he had not
                  seen since his return—at that moment she was more repulsive to him than
                  ever—entered the drawing room and seeing Anatole went up to him.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref166">Ah, Pierre, said the countess going up to her
                  husband. You don’t know what a plight our Anatole...</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref167">Where you are, there is vice and evil! said
                  Pierre to his wife. Anatole, come with me! I must speak to you, he added in
                  French.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref168">Anatole followed him with his usual jaunty step
                  but his face betrayed anxiety.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref169">Having entered his study Pierre closed the door
                  and addressed Anatole without looking at him.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Find Anatole</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, ALL, ANATOLE, HÉLÈNE, SERVANT,
                  NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Anatole, find Anatole<br /> Anatole, find Anatole<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref162"><span class="self">The blood rushes to my heart<br /> It’s
                        difficult to breathe<br />
                     </span></span> Anatole, find Anatole<br /> Anatole, find Anatole<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref162">Not at the ice hills<br /> Not at Matreshka’s<br /> Not at
                     Komoneno’s<br />
                  </span> Anatole, find Anatole<br /> Anatole, find Anatole<br /> To the Club<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref162">And at the Club all is going on as usual<br />
                     <span class="other">The members eat their dinners<br /> And gossip in small
                        groups<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE, ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref163">Have I heard of Kuragin’s abduction?<br /> Is it true
                     Natasha is ruined?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref163">Nonsense, nonsense<br />
                  </span> Nothing has happened<br /> Everything is fine<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">Pierre’s house.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Natasha<br /> Natasha<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref164">It is essential that I see Natasha<br /> How can I see
                     her?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> Anatole, come Anatole<br /> Anatole, hush Anatole<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">Marya D.’s house.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> What? What?<br /> I don’t believe that he is
                  married<br /> I don’t believe you<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref160"><span class="self">And I stare like a hunted wounded
                        animal<br />
                     </span></span> He can’t be married!<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">Pierre’s house.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SERVANT]<br /> Good evening sir<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref164">Prince Anatole is in the drawing room with the
                     Countess<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref166">Ah, Pierre<br /> Sweet husband<br /> You don’t know what a
                     plight our Anatole has had<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Be quiet<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref165">I will not greet you<br /> At this moment you are more
                     repulsive to me than ever<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref167">Anatole, come Anatole<br /> Anatole, must speak to
                     you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref168"><span class="self">Anatole followed with his usual jaunty
                        step<br /> But his face betrayed anxiety<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref169"><span class="self">Pierre closed the door and addressed
                        Anatole without looking at him<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
