<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref203">Where to? Pierre asked himself. Where can I go
                  now? Surely not to the Club or to pay calls? All men seemed so pitiful, so poor,
                  in comparison with this feeling of tenderness and love he experienced: in
                  comparison with that softened, grateful, last look she had given him through her
                  tears.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref205">It was clear and frosty. Above the dirty, ill-lit
                  streets, above the black roofs, stretched the dark starry sky. Only looking up at
                  the sky did Pierre cease to feel how sordid and humiliating were all mundane
                  things compared with the heights to which his soul had just been raised. At the
                  entrance to the Arbát Square an immense expanse of dark starry sky presented
                  itself to his eyes. Almost in the center of it, above the Prechístenka Boulevard,
                  surrounded and sprinkled on all sides by stars but distinguished from them all by
                  its nearness to the earth, its white light, and its long uplifted tail, shone the
                  enormous and brilliant comet of 1812—the comet which was said to portend all kinds
                  of woes and the end of the world. In Pierre, however, that comet with its long
                  luminous tail aroused no feeling of fear. On the contrary he gazed joyfully, his
                  eyes moist with tears, at this bright comet which, having traveled in its orbit
                  with inconceivable velocity through immeasurable space, seemed suddenly—like an
                  arrow piercing the earth—to remain fixed in a chosen spot, vigorously holding its
                  tail erect, shining and displaying its white light amid countless other
                  scintillating stars. It seemed to Pierre that this comet fully responded to what
                  was passing in his own softened and uplifted soul, now blossoming into a new
                  life.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>The Great Comet of 1812</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, ALL</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref203">Where to now?<br /> Where can I go now?<br /> Not to the
                     Club<br /> Not to pay calls<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref203">Mankind seems so pitiful<br /> So poor<br /> Compared to
                     that softened, grateful, last glance<br /> She gave me through her tears<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">It was clear and cold<br /> Above the dirty streets<br />
                     Above the black roofs<br /> Stretched the dark starry sky<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">This vast firmament<br /> Open to my eyes<br /> Wet with
                     tears<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">And there in the middle<br /> Above Prechistensky
                     Boulevard<br /> Surrounded and sprinkled on all sides by stars<br /> Shines The
                     Great Comet of 1812<br /> The Brilliant Comet of 1812<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">The comet said to portend<br /> Untold horrors<br /> And
                     the end of the world<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref-205">But for me<br /> The comet brings no fear<br /> No, I
                     gaze joyfully<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">And this bright star<br /> Having traced its
                     parabola<br /> With inexpressible speed<br /> Through immeasurable space<br />
                     Seems suddenly<br /> To have stopped<br /> Like an arrow piercing the
                     earth<br />
                  </span> Stopped for me<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref205">It seems to me<br /> That this comet<br /> Feels me<br />
                     Feels my softened and uplifted soul<br /> And my newly melted heart<br /> Now
                     blossoming<br /> Into a new life<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
