<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref13">Nothing is trivial, and nothing is important, it’s
                  all the same—only to save oneself from it as best one can, thought Pierre. Only
                  not to see it, that dreadful it!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref100">What am I to do if I love him and the other one
                  too? she asked herself, unable to find an answer to these terrible questions.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref101">Princess Mary wrote that she was in despair at
                  the misunderstanding that had occurred between them. Whatever her father’s
                  feelings might be, she begged Natásha to believe that she could not help loving
                  her as the one chosen by her brother, for whose happiness she was ready to
                  sacrifice everything.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref102">Do not think, however, she wrote, that my father
                  is ill-disposed toward you. He is an invalid and an old man who must be forgiven;
                  but he is good and magnanimous and will love her who makes his son happy. Princess
                  Mary went on to ask Natásha to fix a time when she could see her again.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref103">Dear Princess, she wrote in French quickly and
                  mechanically, and then paused. What more could she write after all that had
                  happened the evening before? Yes, yes! All that has happened, and now all is
                  changed, she thought as she sat with the letter she had begun before her. Must I
                  break off with him? Must I really? That’s awful... and to escape from these
                  dreadful thoughts she went to Sónya and began sorting patterns with her.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref104">Only, for Christ’s sake... the girl went on, as
                  Natásha, without thinking, mechanically broke the seal and read a love letter from
                  Anatole, of which, without taking in a word, she understood only that it was a
                  letter from him—from the man she loved. Yes, she loved him, or else how could that
                  have happened which had happened? And how could she have a love letter from him in
                  her hand?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref105">With trembling hands Natásha held that passionate
                  love letter which Dólokhov had composed for Anatole</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref106">Since yesterday evening my fate has been sealed;
                  to be loved by you or to die. There is no other way for me, the letter began. Then
                  he went on to say that he knew her parents would not give her to him—for this
                  there were secret reasons he could reveal only to her—but that if she loved him
                  she need only say the word yes, and no human power could hinder their bliss. Love
                  would conquer all. He would steal her away and carry her off to the ends of the
                  earth.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref107">Yes, yes! I love him! thought Natásha, reading
                  the letter for the twentieth time and finding some peculiarly deep meaning in each
                  word of it.</p>
               <hr />
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 9 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref218">Writing the words L’Empereur Napoléon in numbers,
                  it appears that the sum of them is 666, and that Napoleon was therefore the beast
                  foretold in the Apocalypse. Moreover, by applying the same system to the words
                  quarante-deux, * which was the term allowed to the beast that spoke great things
                  and blasphemies, the same number 666 was obtained; from which it followed that the
                  limit fixed for Napoleon’s power had come in the year 1812 when the French emperor
                  was forty-two. This prophecy pleased Pierre very much and he often asked himself
                  what would put an end to the power of the beast, that is, of Napoleon, and tried
                  by the same system of using letters as numbers and adding them up, to find an
                  answer to the question that engrossed him. He wrote the words L’Empereur
                  Alexandre, La nation russe and added up their numbers, but the sums were either
                  more or less than 666. Once when making such calculations he wrote down his own
                  name in French, Comte Pierre Besouhoff, but the sum of the numbers did not come
                  right. Then he changed the spelling, substituting a z for the s and adding de and
                  the article le, still without obtaining the desired result. Then it occurred to
                  him: if the answer to the question were contained in his name, his nationality
                  would also be given in the answer. So he wrote Le russe Besuhof and adding up the
                  numbers got 671. This was only five too much, and five was represented by e, the
                  very letter elided from the article le before the word Empereur. By omitting the
                  e, though incorrectly, Pierre got the answer he sought. L’russe Besuhof made 666.
                  This discovery excited him. How, or by what means, he was connected with the great
                  event foretold in the Apocalypse he did not know, but he did not doubt that
                  connection for a moment. His love for Natásha, Antichrist, Napoleon, the invasion,
                  the comet, 666, L’Empereur Napoléon, and L’russe Besuhof—all this had to mature
                  and culminate, to lift him out of that spellbound, petty sphere of Moscow habits
                  in which he felt himself held captive and lead him to a great achievement and
                  great happiness.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Letters</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: ALL, PIERRE, NATASHA, MARY, ANATOLE,
                  DOLOKHOV</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> In nineteenth-century Russia, we write letters<br />
                  We write letters<br /> We put down in writing<br /> What is happening in our minds<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Once it's on the paper, we feel better<br /> We feel
                  better<br /> It's like some kind of clarity<br /> When the letter's done and signed<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Dear Andrey<br /> Dear old friend<br /> How goes
                  the war?<br /> Do we march on the French splendidly?<br /> Do our cannons crack
                  and cry?<br /> Do our bullets whistle and sing?<br /> Does the air reek with smoke?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> I wish I were there<br /> With death at my heels<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Dolokhov is recovering<br /> He will be all
                  right, the good man<br /> And Natasha is in town<br /> Your bride to be, so full
                  of life and mischief<br /> I should visit<br /> I hear she is more beautiful than
                  ever<br /> How I envy you and your happiness<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Here at home I drink and read and drink and read
                  and drink<br /> But I think I've finally found it<br /> What my heart has needed<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref218">For I've been studying the Kabal<br /> And I've calculated
                     the number of the beast<br /> It is Napoleon!<br /> Six hundred three score and
                     six<br /> And I will kill him one day<br />
                  </span> He's no great man<br /> None of us are great men<br /> We're caught in the
                  wave of history<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref13">Nothing matters<br /> Everything matters<br /> It's all the
                     same<br /> Oh, if only I could not see "it"<br /> This dreadful, terrible
                     "it"<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> In nineteenth-century Russia, we write letters<br />
                  We write letters<br /> We put down in writing<br /> What is happening in our minds<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Dear Andrey<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref103">What more can I write<br /> After all that has
                     happened?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref100">What am I to do if I love him and the other one too?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref103">Must I break it off?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref100">These terrible questions<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> I see nothing but the candle in the mirror<br />
                  No visions of the future<br /> So lost and alone<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> And what of Princess Mary?<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[MARY]<br /> Dear Natasha<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref101">I am in deep despair at the misunderstanding there is
                     between us<br /> Whatever my father's feelings might be<br /> I beg you to
                     believe that I cannot help loving you<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref102">He is a tired old man and must be forgiven<br /> Please,
                     come see us again<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Dear Princess Mary<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Oh, what am I to write!<br /> How do I
                  choose?<br /> What do I do?<br /> I shall never be happy again<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> These terrible questions<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARY]<br /> I'm so alone here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE, NATASHA]<br /> So alone in here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARY]<br /> And I see nothing<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, PIERRE, MARY]<br /> I see nothing but the candle in
                  the mirror<br /> No visions of the future<br /> So lost and alone<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> In nineteenth-century Russia, we write letters<br />
                  We write letters<br /> We put down in writing<br /> What is happening in our minds<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Dear Natalie<br /> A love letter<br /> A love
                  letter<br /> A love letter<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref104">A letter from him, from the man that I love<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br /> A letter which I composed<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> A love letter<br /> A love letter...<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref106">Natalie, Natalie, Natalie<br /> I must love you or
                     die<br /> Natalie, Natalie, Natalie<br /> If you love me, say yes<br /> And I
                     will come and steal you away<br /> Steal you out of the dark<br /> Natalie,
                     Natalie, Natalie<br /> I want nothing more<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref106">Natalie, Natalie, Natalie<br /> I must love you or
                     die<br /> Natalie, Natalie, Natalie<br /> If you love me, say yes<br /> And I
                     will come and steal you away<br /> Steal you out of the dark<br /> Natalie,
                     Natalie, Natalie<br /> I want nothing more<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref106">Just say yes<br /> Just say yes<br /> Just say yes<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref107">Yes, yes, I love him<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref104">How else could I have his letter in my hand?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref107">I read it twenty times<br />
                  </span> Thirty times, forty times!<br /> Each and every word<br /> I love him, I
                  love him<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
