<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref63">Anatole, who was as handsome at close quarters as
                  at a distance, sat down beside her and told her he had long wished to have this
                  happiness—ever since the Narýshkins’ ball in fact, at which he had had the
                  well-remembered pleasure of seeing her. Kurágin was much more sensible and simple
                  with women than among men. He talked boldly and naturally, and Natásha was
                  strangely and agreeably struck by the fact that there was nothing formidable in
                  this man about whom there was so much talk, but that on the contrary his smile was
                  most naïve, cheerful, and good-natured.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref64">Kurágin asked her opinion of the performance and
                  told her how at a previous performance Semënova had fallen down on the stage.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref65">And do you know, Countess, he said, suddenly
                  addressing her as an old, familiar acquaintance, we are getting up a costume
                  tournament; you ought to take part in it! It will be great fun. We shall all meet
                  at the Karágins’! Please come! No! Really, eh? said he.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref66">While saying this he never removed his smiling
                  eyes from her face, her neck, and her bare arms. Natásha knew for certain that he
                  was enraptured by her. This pleased her, yet his presence made her feel
                  constrained and oppressed. When she was not looking at him she felt that he was
                  looking at her shoulders, and she involuntarily caught his eye so that he should
                  look into hers rather than this. But looking into his eyes she was frightened,
                  realizing that there was not that barrier of modesty she had always felt between
                  herself and other men. She did not know how it was that within five minutes she
                  had come to feel herself terribly near to this man. When she turned away she
                  feared he might seize her from behind by her bare arm and kiss her on the neck.
                  They spoke of most ordinary things, yet she felt that they were closer to one
                  another than she had ever been to any man.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref67">During one of these moments of awkward silence
                  when Anatole’s prominent eyes were gazing calmly and fixedly at her, Natásha, to
                  break the silence, asked him how he liked Moscow.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref68">At first I did not like it much, because what
                  makes a town pleasant ce sont les jolies femmes, * isn’t that so? But now I like
                  it very much indeed, he said, looking at her significantly. You’ll come to the
                  costume tournament, Countess? Do come! and putting out his hand to her bouquet and
                  dropping his voice, he added, You will be the prettiest there. Do come, dear
                  countess, and give me this flower as a pledge!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref69">She smiled just as he was doing, gazing straight
                  into his eyes. And again she felt with horror that no barrier lay between him and
                  her.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Natasha and Anatole</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: NATASHA, ANATOLE</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref63">I have long wished to have this happiness<br /> Ever since
                     the Naryshkins’ ball<br /> Where I had the well-remembered pleasure of seeing
                     you<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref64">How do you like the performance?<br /> Last week Semenova
                     fell down on the stage<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref63">He is sensible and simple<br /> Bold and natural<br /> So
                     strange and agreeable<br /> There is nothing formidable<br /> His smile is most
                     naive<br /> Cheerful and good-natured<br />
                  </span> And he’s as handsome up close as at a distance<br /> And he’s as handsome
                  up close as at a distance<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref65">And do you know, Natasha<br /> We are having a costume
                     tournament soon<br /> You ought to come, please come!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Oh—<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref65">You ought to come, please come!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Oh, I—<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66">
                     <span class="self">And I never remove my smiling eyes<br /> From your face,
                        your neck, your bare arms<br /> And I never remove my smiling eyes<br />
                        From your face, your neck, your bare arms<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66">I know for certain that he is taken by me<br /> I know for
                     certain that he is enraptured by me<br /> I feel him looking at my
                     shoulders<br /> My face, my neck, my bare arms<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66"><span class="self">And I look you in the eye<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE, NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66"><span class="self">And I look you in the eye<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66"><span class="self">And looking into his eyes<br /> I am
                        frightened<br />
                     </span> There’s not that barrier of modesty<br /> I’ve always felt with
                     men<br /> I feel so terribly near<br /> I fear that he may seize me from
                     behind<br /> And kiss me on the neck<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref67">How do you like Moscow?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref68">At first I did not like it much<br /> Because what makes a
                     town pleasant<br /> Ce sont les jolies femmes<br /> Isn’t that so?<br /> But
                     now I like it very much indeed<br /> Do come to the costume tournament
                     Countess<br /> Do come!<br /> You will be the prettiest there<br /> You will be
                     the prettiest there<br /> Do come, dear Countess, and give me this flower as a
                     pledge<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref66">We are speaking of most ordinary things<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref66">Yet I feel closer to you than I’ve ever felt with any other
                     man<br />
                  </span> No one else is here<br /> No one else can see us<br /> Your eyes<br />
                  Your eyes<br /> Your eyes<br /> Oh your eyes<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> It’s all right, Natasha, I’m here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE, NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref69">So near<br /> Nothing between us<br /> Smile at me<br />
                     There is nothing between us<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
