<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref37">O God, if he were here now I would not behave as I
                  did then, but differently. I would not be silly and afraid of things, I would
                  simply embrace him, cling to him, and make him look at me with those searching
                  inquiring eyes with which he has so often looked at me, and then I would make him
                  laugh as he used to laugh. And his eyes—how I see those eyes! thought Natásha. And
                  what do his father and sister matter to me? I love him alone, him, him, with that
                  face and those eyes, with his smile, manly and yet childlike....</p>
               <hr />
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 6 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref215">Sónya! Sónya! he again heard the first speaker.
                  Oh, how can you sleep? Only look how glorious it is! Ah, how glorious! Do wake up,
                  Sónya! she said almost with tears in her voice. There never, never was such a
                  lovely night before!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref216"> Do just come and see what a moon!... Oh, how
                  lovely! Come here.... Darling, sweetheart, come here! There, you see? I feel like
                  sitting down on my heels, putting my arms round my knees like this, straining
                  tight, as tight as possible, and flying away! Like this.... </p>
               <hr />
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 7 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref217">No, I don’t believe we ever were in animals, said
                  Natásha, still in a whisper though the music had ceased. But I am certain that we
                  were angels somewhere there, and have been here, and that is why we
                  remember....</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>No One Else</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> The moon—<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> First time I heard your voice<br /> Moonlight
                  burst into the room<br /> And I saw your eyes<br /> And I saw your smile<br /> And
                  the world opened wide<br /> And the world was inside of me<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="self">And I catch my breath<br /> And I laugh and blush<br /> And I
                     hear guitars<br />
                  </span> You are so good for me<br /> I love you I love you I love you I love you I
                  love you<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Oh the moon<br /> Oh the snow in the moonlight<br />
                  <span class="37">And your childlike eyes<br /> And your distant smile<br />
                  </span> I’ll never be this happy again<br /> You and I<br /> And no one else<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref217">We’ve done this all before<br /> We were angels once<br />
                     Don’t you remember?<br />
                  </span> Joy and life<br /> Inside our souls<br /> And nobody knows<br /> Just you
                  and me<br /> It’s our secret<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-215">This winter sky<br /> How can anyone sleep?<br /> There was
                     never such a night before!<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-216">I feel like putting my arms round my knees<br /> And
                     squeezing tight as possible<br /> And flying away<br /> Like this...<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Oh the moon<br /> Oh the snow in the moonlight<br />
                  <span class="37">And your childlike eyes<br /> And your distant smile<br />
                  </span> I’ll never be this happy again<br /> You and I<br /> You and I<br /> You
                  and I<br /> And no one else<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Maybe he’ll come today<br /> Maybe he came
                  already<br /> And he’s sitting in the drawing room<br /> And I simply forgot<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
