<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref40">The music sounded louder and through the door rows
                  of brightly lit boxes in which ladies sat with bare arms and shoulders, and noisy
                  stalls brilliant with uniforms, glittered before their eyes. A lady entering the
                  next box shot a glance of feminine envy at Natásha. The curtain had not yet risen
                  and the overture was being played. Natásha, smoothing her gown, went in with Sónya
                  and sat down, scanning the brilliant tiers of boxes opposite. A sensation she had
                  not experienced for a long time—that of hundreds of eyes looking at her bare arms
                  and neck—suddenly affected her both agreeably and disagreeably and called up a
                  whole crowd of memories, desires and emotions associated with that feeling.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref41">The two remarkably pretty girls, Natásha and
                  Sónya, with Count Rostóv who had not been seen in Moscow for a long time,
                  attracted general attention. Moreover, everybody knew vaguely of Natásha’s
                  engagement to Prince Andrew, and knew that the Rostóvs had lived in the country
                  ever since, and all looked with curiosity at a fiancée who was making one of the
                  best matches in Russia.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref42">Dear me, Michael Kirílovich has grown still
                  stouter! remarked the count. Look at our Anna Mikháylovna—what a headdress she has
                  on!The Karágins, Julie—and Borís with them. One can see at once that they’re
                  engaged....</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref43">They are talking about us, about me and him!
                  thought Natásha. And he no doubt is calming her jealousy of me. They needn’t
                  trouble themselves! If only they knew how little I am concerned about any of
                  them.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref44">He stood in full view of the audience, well aware
                  that he was attracting everyone’s attention, yet as much at ease as though he were
                  in his own room. Around him thronged Moscow’s most brilliant young men, whom he
                  evidently dominated.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref45">He did, replied Shinshín. He was in the Caucasus
                  and ran away from there. They say he has been acting as minister to some ruling
                  prince in Persia, where he killed the Shah’s brother. Now all the Moscow ladies
                  are mad about him! It’s Dólokhov the Persian that does it!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref46">A tall, beautiful woman with a mass of plaited
                  hair and much exposed plump white shoulders and neck, round which she wore a
                  double string of large pearls, entered the adjoining box rustling her heavy silk
                  dress and took a long time settling into her place.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref47">Natásha involuntarily gazed at that neck, those
                  shoulders, and pearls and coiffure, and admired the beauty of the shoulders and
                  the pearls. While Natásha was fixing her gaze on her for the second time the lady
                  looked round and, meeting the count’s eyes, nodded to him and smiled. She was the
                  Countess Bezúkhova, Pierre’s wife, and the count, who knew everyone in society,
                  leaned over and spoke to her.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref48">Have you been here long, Countess? he inquired.
                  I’ll call, I’ll call to kiss your hand. I’m here on business and have brought my
                  girls with me. They say Semënova acts marvelously. Count Pierre never used to
                  forget us. Is he here?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref49">As soon as it rose everyone in the boxes and
                  stalls became silent, and all the men, old and young, in uniform and evening
                  dress, and all the women with gems on their bare flesh, turned their whole
                  attention with eager curiosity to the stage.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref50">After her life in the country, and in her present
                  serious mood, all this seemed grotesque and amazing to Natásha. She could not
                  follow the opera nor even listen to the music; she saw only the painted cardboard
                  and the queerly dressed men and women who moved, spoke, and sang so strangely in
                  that brilliant light. She knew what it was all meant to represent, but it was so
                  pretentiously false and unnatural that she first felt ashamed for the actors and
                  then amused at them. She looked at the faces of the audience, seeking in them the
                  same sense of ridicule and perplexity she herself experienced, but they all seemed
                  attentive to what was happening on the stage, and expressed delight which to
                  Natásha seemed feigned.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref51">especially at Hélène in the next box,
                  who—apparently quite unclothed—sat with a quiet tranquil smile</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref52">And feeling the bright light that flooded the
                  whole place and the warm air heated by the crowd, Natásha little by little began
                  to pass into a state of intoxication she had not experienced for a long while.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref53">As she looked and thought, the strangest fancies
                  unexpectedly and disconnectedly passed through her mind: the idea occurred to her
                  of jumping onto the edge of the box and singing the aria the actress was singing,
                  then she wished to touch with her fan an old gentleman sitting not far from her,
                  then to lean over to Hélène and tickle her.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref54">At a moment when all was quiet before the
                  commencement of a song, a door leading to the stalls on the side nearest the
                  Rostóvs’ box creaked, and the steps of a belated arrival were heard. There’s
                  Kurágin! whispered Shinshín. Countess Bezúkhova turned smiling to the newcomer,
                  and Natásha, following the direction of that look, saw an exceptionally handsome
                  adjutant approaching their box with a self-assured yet courteous bearing. This was
                  Anatole Kurágin whom she had seen and noticed long ago at the ball in Petersburg.
                  He was now in an adjutant’s uniform with one epaulet and a shoulder knot. He moved
                  with a restrained swagger which would have been ridiculous had he not been so
                  good-looking and had his handsome face not worn such an expression of good-humored
                  complacency and gaiety. Though the performance was proceeding, he walked
                  deliberately down the carpeted gangway, his sword and spurs slightly jingling and
                  his handsome perfumed head held high. Having looked at Natásha he approached his
                  sister, laid his well gloved hand on the edge of her box, nodded to her, and
                  leaning forward asked a question, with a motion toward Natásha.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref55">Mais charmante! said he, evidently referring to
                  Natásha, who did not exactly hear his words but understood them from the movement
                  of his lips. Then he took his place in the first row of the stalls and sat down
                  beside Dólokhov, nudging with his elbow in a friendly and offhand way that
                  Dólokhov whom others treated so fawningly. He winked at him gaily, smiled, and
                  rested his foot against the orchestra screen.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref56">She turned and their eyes met. Almost smiling, he
                  gazed straight into her eyes with such an enraptured caressing look that it seemed
                  strange to be so near him, to look at him like that, to be so sure he admired her,
                  and not to be acquainted with him.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref57">In the second act there was scenery representing
                  tombstones, there was a round hole in the canvas to represent the moon, shades
                  were raised over the footlights, and from horns and contrabass came deep notes
                  while many people appeared from right and left wearing black cloaks and holding
                  things like daggers in their hands. They began waving their arms.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref60">The scene of the third act represented a palace in
                  which many candles were burning and pictures of knights with short beards hung on
                  the walls. In the middle stood what were probably a king and a queen. The king
                  waved his right arm and, evidently nervous, sang something badly and sat down on a
                  crimson throne.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref61">But suddenly a storm came on, chromatic scales and
                  diminished sevenths were heard in the orchestra, everyone ran off, again dragging
                  one of their number away, and the curtain dropped. Once more there was a terrible
                  noise and clatter among the audience, and with rapturous faces everyone began
                  shouting: Duport! Duport! Duport!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref62">During the entr’acte a whiff of cold air came into
                  Hélène’s box, the door opened, and Anatole entered, stooping and trying not to
                  brush against anyone.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>The Opera</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: MARYA D, SONYA, ANATOLE, HÉLÈNE, ALL,
                  NATASHA, SERVANT</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> The opera, the opera!<br /> Stop mooning and
                  moaning, we’ll miss the curtain!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SERVANT]<br /> Ladies<br /> Welcome to the opera<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> Bare arms and shoulders<br /> Brilliant
                  uniforms<br /> Pearls and silk<br /> Glittering before our eyes<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref40"> Feminine envy<br /> A whole crowd of memories<br />
                     Desires and emotions<br />
                  </span> Natasha, smooth your gown<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Natasha, smooth your gown<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Looking in the glass<br /> I see I am
                  pretty<br /> Not a girl anymore<br /> I’ve never felt like this before<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref40"> Hundreds of eyes<br /> Looking at my bare arms<br /> My
                     bare arms and neck<br /> My bare arms and shoulders<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref41"> The two remarkably pretty girls<br /> Had not been seen in
                     Moscow in many years<br /> Everybody knew vaguely of Natasha’s engagement<br />
                     One of the finest matches in all of Russia<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> Look, there’s Alexey, home from the war at last<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> He has changed<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref42"> Dear me, Michael Kirilovich has grown still stouter!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref42"> There’s Boris and Julie, engaged<br /> And Anna
                     Mikhaylovna, what a headdress she has on!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> And is that Natasha<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> And is that Natasha<br /> And is that Natasha<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref43">
                     <span class="other">They are looking at me<br /> They are talking about
                        me!<br /> They all like me so much<br /> The women envious<br /> The men
                        calming their jealousy<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SERVANT]<br /> Announcing Fedya Dolokhov<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref44"> He dominates Moscow’s most brilliant young men<br />
                     <span class="other">He stands in full view<br /> Well aware he’s attracting
                        attention<br /> Yet as much at ease as though he were in his own room<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref45"> Dolokhov was in the Caucasus<br /> And he killed the
                     Shah’s brother!<br /> Now all the Moscow ladies are mad about him<br />
                  </span> Dolokhov the assassin!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SERVANT]<br /> Announcing Countess Hélène Bezukhova<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref46">
                     <span class="other">The queen of society<br /> Beautiful, barely clothed<br />
                        Plump bare shoulders, and much-exposed neck<br /> Round which she wears a
                        double string of pearls<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Hélène and Dolokhov, arm in arm<br /> Pierre the
                  cuckold sits at home<br /> Pierre the cuckold sits at home<br /> The poor man<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> No, I am enjoying myself at home this evening<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref47"> Oh, that neck<br /> Oh, those pearls<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> So beautiful<br /> What a charming young
                  girl<br /> So enchanting<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="self">I blush scarlet<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref47"> Countess Bezukhova, Pierre’s wife<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref48"> Have you been here long?<br /> And where is dear
                     Pierre?<br /> He never used to forget us<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Yes Pierre, that good man<br /> A little sad, a
                  little stout<br /> He must come visit us<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> I will implore him to do so<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> There’s a woman one should stay far away
                  from<br /> Now Natasha<br /> The curtain rises<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> The curtain rises<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref49">
                     <span class="other">Everyone in the boxes and the stalls became silent<br />
                        All the men, old and young, in uniform and evening dress<br /> All the women
                        in the hall<br /> With gems on their bare flesh<br /> Turned their whole
                        attention<br /> With curiosity to the stage<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Two singers perform a scene from an avant-garde opera. It is
                  grotesque and amazing.</p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref50"> Grotesque and amazing<br /> I cannot follow the
                     opera<br /> Or even listen to the music<br /> I see painted cardboard<br />
                     Queerly dressed actors<br /> Moving and singing so strangely in the
                     lights<br /> So false and unnatural<br /> I’m ashamed and amused<br /> And
                     everyone else seems oblivious<br /> Yes everyone feigns delight<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref52">
                     <span class="other">And feeling the flood of brilliant lights<br /> The warm
                        perfumed air heated by the crowd<br /> Natasha little by little<br /> Began
                        to pass into a state of intoxication<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref53"> Oh I’d tickle you all if I could<br /> Oh I’d tickle you
                     all if I could<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> And then<br /> A rush of cold air<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA, SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref54">
                     <span class="other">An exceptionally handsome man walked in<br /> With a
                        confident yet courteous air<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> This was Hélène’s brother<br /> Anatole Kuragin<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref54">
                     <span class="other">He moved with a swagger<br /> Which would have been
                        ridiculous<br /> Had he not been so good-looking<br /> And though it was the
                        middle of the act<br /> He walked right down the aisle<br /> His sword and
                        spurs jangling<br /> His handsome perfumed head held high<br /> And he
                        looked right at Natasha<br />
                     </span>
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref55">Mais charmante<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref55"><span class="other">And he took his place in the front row
                        next to Dolokhov<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> How handsome he is<br /> How intoxicating<br />
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref57"><span class="other">In the second act there were
                        tombstones<br /> The moon over the footlights<br /> Horns and
                        contrabass<br /> Black cloaks and daggers in their hands<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref56"><span class="self">I turn around again and our eyes
                        meet<br />
                     </span>
                     <span class="other">He gazes straight into my eyes<br /> He is talking about
                        me<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref60"><span class="other">Candles burning<br /> A crimson
                        throne<br /> The Tsar wails a mournful tune<br /> They all wave their
                        arms<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="other">And everybody cheers<br /> “Bravo, bravo!”<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="other">Every time I look at him<br /> He’s looking at me<br /> Every
                     time I look at him<br /> He's looking at me<br /> Every time I look at
                     him<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref61">A terrible noise, a clatter in the crowd<br /> A storm of
                     chromatic scales and diminished sevenths<br />
                     <span class="other">With rapturous faces everyone was shouting<br /> Screaming
                        and shouting, “Bravo!”<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Bravo, bravo<br /> Bravo, bravo<br /> Bravo, bravo<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref62">And then<br /> A rush of cold air<br />
                     <span class="other">And Anatole entered the box<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
