<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../js/natasha.js"></script>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref190">Natásha was standing in the middle of the drawing
                  room, emaciated, with a pale set face, but not at all shamefaced as Pierre
                  expected to find her. When he appeared at the door she grew flurried, evidently
                  undecided whether to go to meet him or to wait till he came up.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref191">Pierre hastened to her. He thought she would give
                  him her hand as usual; but she, stepping up to him, stopped, breathing heavily,
                  her arms hanging lifelessly just in the pose she used to stand in when she went to
                  the middle of the ballroom to sing, but with quite a different expression of
                  face.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref192">Peter Kirílovich, she began rapidly, Prince
                  Bolkónski was your friend—is your friend, she corrected herself. (It seemed to her
                  that everything that had once been must now be different.) He told me once to
                  apply to you...</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref193">Pierre sniffed as he looked at her, but did not
                  speak. Till then he had reproached her in his heart and tried to despise her, but
                  he now felt so sorry for her that there was no room in his soul for reproach.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref194"> He is here now: tell him... to for... forgive
                  me! She stopped and breathed still more quickly, but did not shed tears. Yes... I
                  will tell him, answered Pierre; but... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref195">No, I know all is over, she said hurriedly. No,
                  that can never be. I’m only tormented by the wrong I have done him. Tell him only
                  that I beg him to forgive, forgive, forgive me for everything....</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref196">I will tell him, I will tell him everything once
                  more, said Pierre. But... I should like to know one thing....</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref197"> I should like to know, did you love... Pierre
                  did not know how to refer to Anatole and flushed at the thought of him—did you
                  love that bad man? Don’t call him bad! said Natásha. But I don’t know, don’t know
                  at all.... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref198">She began to cry and a still greater sense of
                  pity, tenderness, and love welled up in Pierre. He felt the tears trickle under
                  his spectacles and hoped they would not be noticed.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref199"> We won’t speak of it any more, my dear, said
                  Pierre, and his gentle, cordial tone suddenly seemed very strange to Natásha. We
                  won’t speak of it, my dear—I’ll tell him everything; but one thing I beg of you,
                  consider me your friend and if you want help, advice, or simply to open your heart
                  to someone—not now, but when your mind is clearer--think of me! He took her hand
                  and kissed it. I shall be happy if it’s in my power... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref200"> Pierre grew confused. Don’t speak to me like
                  that. I am not worth it! exclaimed Natásha and turned to leave the room, but
                  Pierre held her hand. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref201"> Stop, stop! You have your whole life before you,
                  said he to her. Before me? No! All is over for me, she replied with shame and
                  self-abasement. All over? he repeated. If I were not myself, but the handsomest,
                  cleverest, and best man in the world, and were free, I would this moment ask on my
                  knees for your hand and your love! For the first time for many days Natásha wept
                  tears of gratitude and tenderness, and glancing at Pierre she went out of the
                  room. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref202">Pierre too when she had gone almost ran into the
                  anteroom, restraining tears of tenderness and joy that choked him, and without
                  finding the sleeves of his fur cloak threw it on and got into his sleigh.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref204">Home! said Pierre, and despite twenty-two degrees
                  of frost Fahrenheit he threw open the bearskin cloak from his broad chest and
                  inhaled the air with joy.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Pierre and Natasha</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref190"><span class="other">Natasha was standing<br /> In the
                        middle of the drawing room<br /> With a pale yet steady face<br />
                     </span> When I appeared in the doorway<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref191"><span class="other">She grew flustered</span> and <span
                        class="self">I hurried to her</span><br /> I thought that she would give me
                     her hand<br />
                     <span class="other">But instead she stopped<br /> Breathing heavily<br /> Her
                        thin arms hanging lifelessly<br />
                     </span> Just in the very pose<br /> She used to stand in as a young girl<br />
                     When she went to the middle of the ballroom to sing<br />
                     <span class="other">But the look on her face was quite different<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref192">Peter Kirilovich<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Pierre<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref192">Prince Bolkonsky was your friend—<br /> He is your
                     friend<br /> He once told me that I should turn to you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref193"><span class="self">Pierre sniffed as he looked at her, but
                        he didn’t speak<br /> ’Til then he had reproached her, and tried to despise
                        her<br /> But now he felt such pity for her<br /> That there was no room in
                        his soul for reproach<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref194">He is here now<br /> Tell him to—tell him to forgive
                     me<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref194">Yes, I will tell him to forgive you<br />
                  </span> But, he gave me your letters—<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref195">No, I know that all is over<br /> I know that it never can
                     be<br /> But still I’m tormented by the wrongs I’ve done him<br /> Tell him
                     that I beg him to forgive, forgive<br /> Forgive me for everything<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref196">Yes I will tell him, tell him everything<br /> But—<br />
                     But I should like to know one thing<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref197">Did you love—<br /> Did you love that bad man?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref197">Don’t call him bad<br /> But I don’t know, I don’t know at
                     all<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref198"><span class="other">She began to cry<br />
                     </span>
                     <span class="self">And a greater sense of pity, tenderness, and love overflowed
                        Pierre’s heart<br /> He felt the tears begin to trickle underneath his
                        spectacles<br /> And he hoped that no one would see<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref199">We won’t speak of it anymore<br /> We won’t speak of it,
                     my dear<br /> But one thing I beg of you, consider me your friend<br /> And if
                     you ever need help, or simply to open your heart to someone<br /> Not now, but
                     when your mind is clear<br /> Think of me—<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref200"><span class="other">Pierre grew confused<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref200">Don’t speak to me like that<br /> I am not worth it!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref201">Stop, stop, stop!<br /> You have your whole life before
                     you—<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref201">Before me? No, all is over for me!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref201">All over?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Music stops.</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref201">If I were not myself<br /> But the brightest,
                     handsomest<br /> Best man on earth<br /> And if I were free—<br /> I would get
                     down on my knees this minute<br /> And ask you for your hand<br /> And for your
                     love<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">Music resumes.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref201"><span class="self">And for the first time in many
                        days<br /> I weep tears of gratitude<br /> Tears of tenderness<br /> Tears
                        of thanks<br /> And glancing at Pierre<br /> Oh Pierre<br /> I leave the
                        room smiling<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref202"><span class="self">And restraining tears of
                        tenderness<br /> Tears of joy which choke me<br /> I throw my fur coat on my
                        shoulders<br /> Unable to find the sleeves<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="wp-ref204"><span class="self">Outside, my great broad chest<br />
                        Breathes in deep the air with joy<br /> Despite the ten degrees of
                        frost<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="wp-ref202"><span class="self">And I get into my sleigh<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
