<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref183">Well, how are you? Still getting stouter? he said
                  with animation, but the new wrinkle on his forehead deepened. Yes, I am well, he
                  said in answer to Pierre’s question, and smiled.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref184"> Forgive me for troubling you.... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref185"> I have received a refusal from Countess Rostóva
                  and have heard reports of your brother-in-law having sought her hand, or something
                  of that kind. Is that true? </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref186"> Here are her letters and her portrait, said he.
                  He took the packet from the table and handed it to Pierre. Give this to the
                  countess... if you see her. She is very ill, said Pierre. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref187"> He left long ago. She has been at death’s door.
                  I much regret her illness, said Prince Andrew; and he smiled like his father,
                  coldly, maliciously, and unpleasantly. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref188"> Well, it doesn’t matter, said Prince Andrew.
                  Tell Countess Rostóva that she was and is perfectly free and that I wish her all
                  that is good. Pierre took the packet. Prince Andrew, as if trying to remember
                  whether he had something more to say, or waiting to see if Pierre would say
                  anything, looked fixedly at him. I say, do you remember our discussion in
                  Petersburg? asked Pierre, about... Yes, returned Prince Andrew hastily. I said
                  that a fallen woman should be forgiven, but I didn’t say I could forgive her. I
                  can’t. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref189">Prince Andrew interrupted him and cried sharply:
                  Yes, ask her hand again, be magnanimous, and so on?... Yes, that would be very
                  noble, but I am unable to follow in that gentleman’s footsteps. If you wish to be
                  my friend never speak to me of that... of all that! Well, good-by. So you’ll give
                  her the packet?</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Pierre and Andrey</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, ANDREY</p>



               <p class="flex-para">Andrey visits Pierre.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref183">Well, how are you?<br /> Still getting stouter?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref183">There’s a new wrinkle<br /> On your forehead old
                     friend<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br /> It’s good to see you<br /> I’ve been away too long<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> My friend, you are in need<br /> Your face is gloomy<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br /> No, I am well<br /> There’s a war going on<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref184">Forgive me for troubling you<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref185">I have received a refusal from Countess Rostova<br /> And
                     have heard reports of your brother-in-law having sought her hand<br /> Or
                     something of that kind<br /> Is this true?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Something of that kind<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref186">Here are her letters<br /> Please give them to the
                     Countess<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref186">Natasha is ill<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref187">She has been at death’s door<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref187">I much regret her illness<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref187"><span class="other">And he smiled like his father<br />
                        Coldly, maliciously<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref188">Well, it doesn’t matter<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref188">You told me once<br /> A fallen woman should be
                     forgiven<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref188">But I didn’t say that I could forgive<br /> I can’t<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref189">Yes, ask her hand again<br /> Be magnanimous, and so
                     on<br /> Yes, that would be very noble<br /> But I can’t be that man<br /> If
                     you wish to be my friend<br /> Never speak of that again<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANDREY]<br /> Well, goodbye<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Pierre takes the letters to Natasha.</p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
