<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref170"> You promised Countess Rostóva to marry her and
                  were about to elope with her, is that so? </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref171">Mon cher, answered Anatole (their whole
                  conversation was in French), I don’t consider myself bound to answer questions put
                  to me in that tone.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref172">Pierre’s face, already pale, became distorted by
                  fury. He seized Anatole by the collar of his uniform with his big hand and shook
                  him from side to side till Anatole’s face showed a sufficient degree of
                  terror.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref173">When I tell you that I must talk to you!...
                  repeated Pierre. Come now, this is stupid. What? said Anatole, fingering a button
                  of his collar that had been wrenched loose with a bit of the cloth. You’re a
                  scoundrel and a blackguard, and I don’t know what deprives me from the pleasure of
                  smashing your head with this! said Pierre, expressing himself so artificially
                  because he was talking French.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref174"> Did you promise to marry her? I... I didn’t
                  think of it. I never promised, because... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref175">Have you any letters of hers? Any letters? he
                  said, moving toward Anatole.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref176">I shan’t be violent, don’t be afraid! said Pierre
                  in answer to a frightened gesture of Anatole’s. First, the letters, said he, as if
                  repeating a lesson to himself. Secondly, he continued after a short pause, again
                  rising and again pacing the room, tomorrow you must get out of Moscow. But how can
                  I?... Thirdly, Pierre continued without listening to him, you must never breathe a
                  word of what has passed between you and Countess Rostóva. I know I can’t prevent
                  your doing so, but if you have a spark of conscience... Pierre paced the room
                  several times in silence. Anatole sat at a table frowning and biting his lips.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref177"> After all, you must understand that besides your
                  pleasure there is such a thing as other people’s happiness and peace, and that you
                  are ruining a whole life for the sake of amusing yourself! Amuse yourself with
                  women like my wife—with them you are within your rights, for they know what you
                  want of them. They are armed against you by the same experience of debauchery; but
                  to promise a maid to marry her... to deceive, to kidnap.... Don’t you understand
                  that it is as mean as beating an old man or a child?... </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref178">I don’t know about that, eh? said Anatole,
                  growing more confident as Pierre mastered his wrath. I don’t know that and don’t
                  want to, he said, not looking at Pierre and with a slight tremor of his lower jaw,
                  but you have used such words to me—mean and so on—which as a man of honor I can’t
                  allow anyone to use.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref179">Is it satisfaction you want? said Pierre
                  ironically. You could at least take back your words. What? If you want me to do as
                  you wish, eh?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref180">I take them back, I take them back! said Pierre,
                  and I ask you to forgive me. Pierre involuntarily glanced at the loose button. And
                  if you require money for your journey... Anatole smiled. The expression of that
                  base and cringing smile, which Pierre knew so well in his wife, revolted him. Oh,
                  vile and heartless brood! he exclaimed, and left the room. Next day Anatole left
                  for Petersburg.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Pierre and Anatole</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, ANATOLE</p>



               <p class="flex-para">During this scene, Natasha prepares to poison herself.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref170">You promised Countess Rostova to marry her and were about
                     to elope, is that so?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref171">Mon cher<br /> I don’t consider myself bound to answer
                     questions put to me in that tone<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref172"><span class="self">My face, already pale<br /> Becomes
                        distorted by fury<br /> I seize you by the collar with my big big
                        hands<br /> And I shake you from side to side<br /> Until your face shows a
                        sufficient degree of terror<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="wp-ref173">When I tell you I must talk to you!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref173">Come now, this is stupid!<br /> What what, don’t
                     don’t!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref173">You’re a scoundrel and a blackguard<br /> And I don’t know
                     what deprives me of the pleasure<br /> Of smashing your head in with
                     this!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">He takes a heavy paperweight and lifts it threateningly, but at
                  once puts it back in its place.</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref174">Did you promise to marry her?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref174">I didn’t think of it. I never promised, because—<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref175">Have you any letters of hers?<br /> Any letters?<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref176">I shan’t be violent, don’t be afraid<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">Anatole hands Pierre a pack of letters.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref176">First, the letters<br /> Second, tomorrow you must get out
                     of Moscow<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref176">But how can I?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref176">Third<br /> You must never breathe a word of what has
                     happened between you and the Countess<br /> Now I know I can’t prevent your
                     doing so<br /> But if you have a spark of conscience—<br />
                     <span class="self">Pierre paces the room several times in silence<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref176"><span class="self">Anatole sits at a table frowning and
                        biting his lips<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref177">After all, you must understand<br /> That besides your
                     pleasure<br /> There is such a thing as other people<br /> And their happiness
                     and peace<br /> And that you are ruining a whole life<br /> For the sake of
                     amusing yourself!<br /> Amuse yourself with women like my wife<br /> With them
                     you’re within your rights<br /> But to promise a young girl to marry her<br />
                     To deceive, to kidnap<br /> Don’t you understand that that’s as cruel<br /> As
                     beating an old man or a child?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref178">Well, I don’t know about that, eh?<br /> I don’t know that
                     and I don’t want to<br /> But you have used such words to me<br /> “Scoundrel”
                     and so on<br /> Which as a man of honor<br /> I will not allow anyone to
                     use<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref179">Is it satisfaction you want?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref179">You could at least take back your words, eh?<br /> If you
                     want me to do as you wish?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>



               <p class="flex-para">Natasha drinks the poison.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref180">Fine, I take them back, I take them back!<br /> And I ask
                     you to forgive me<br /> And if you require money for your journey—<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref180"><span class="self">Anatole smiled<br /> The reflection of
                        that base and cringing smile<br />
                     </span>
                     <span class="other">Which Pierre knew so well in his wife<br /> Revolted
                        him<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref180">Oh, vile and heartless brood!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref180"><span class="self">Next day Anatole left<br /> For
                        Petersburg!<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
