<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref119">The plan for Natalie Rostóva’s abduction had been
                  arranged and the preparations made by Dólokhov a few days before, and on the day
                  that Sónya, after listening at Natásha’s door, resolved to safeguard her, it was
                  to have been put into execution. Natásha had promised to come out to Kurágin at
                  the back porch at ten that evening. Kurágin was to put her into a troyka he would
                  have ready and to drive her forty miles to the village of Kámenka, where an
                  unfrocked priest was in readiness to perform a marriage ceremony over them. At
                  Kámenka a relay of horses was to wait which would take them to the Warsaw
                  highroad, and from there they would hasten abroad with post horses.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref120">Anatole had a passport, an order for post horses,
                  ten thousand rubles he had taken from his sister and another ten thousand borrowed
                  with Dólokhov’s help.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref121">Two witnesses for the mock marriage—Khvóstikov, a
                  retired petty official whom Dólokhov made use of in his gambling transactions, and
                  Makárin, a retired hussar, a kindly, weak fellow who had an unbounded affection
                  for Kurágin—were sitting at tea in Dólokhov’s front room.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref122">In his large study, the walls of which were hung
                  to the ceiling with Persian rugs, bearskins, and weapons, sat Dólokhov in a
                  traveling cloak and high boots, at an open desk on which lay an abacus and some
                  bundles of paper money. Anatole, with uniform unbuttoned, walked to and fro from
                  the room where the witnesses were sitting, through the study to the room behind,
                  where his French valet and others were packing the last of his things. Dólokhov
                  was counting the money and noting something down.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref123">Do you know? You’d really better drop it all.
                  There’s still time! Fool, retorted Anatole. Don’t talk nonsense! If you only
                  knew... it’s the devil knows what! No, really, give it up! said Dólokhov. I am
                  speaking seriously. It’s no joke, this plot you’ve hatched. What, teasing again?
                  Go to the devil! Eh? said Anatole, making a grimace. Really it’s no time for your
                  stupid jokes, and he left the room.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref124">You wait a bit, he called after him. I’m not
                  joking, I’m talking sense. Come here, come here! Anatole returned and looked at
                  Dólokhov, trying to give him his attention and evidently submitting to him
                  involuntarily. Now listen to me. I’m telling you this for the last time. Why
                  should I joke about it? Did I hinder you? Who arranged everything for you? Who
                  found the priest and got the passport? Who raised the money? I did it all. Well,
                  thank you for it. Do you think I am not grateful? And Anatole sighed and embraced
                  Dólokhov. I helped you, but all the same I must tell you the truth; it is a
                  dangerous business, and if you think about it—a stupid business. Well, you’ll
                  carry her off—all right! Will they let it stop at that? It will come out that
                  you’re already married. Why, they’ll have you in the criminal court....</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref125">Oh, nonsense, nonsense! Anatole ejaculated and
                  again made a grimace. Didn’t I explain to you? What? And Anatole, with the
                  partiality dull-witted people have for any conclusion they have reached by their
                  own reasoning, repeated the argument he had already put to Dólokhov a hundred
                  times. Didn’t I explain to you that I have come to this conclusion: if this
                  marriage is invalid, he went on, crooking one finger, then I have nothing to
                  answer for; but if it is valid, no matter! Abroad no one will know anything about
                  it. Isn’t that so? And don’t talk to me, don’t, don’t.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref126">Go to the devil! cried Anatole and, clutching his
                  hair, left the room, but returned at once and dropped into an armchair in front of
                  Dólokhov with his feet turned under him. It’s the very devil! What? Feel how it
                  beats! He took Dólokhov’s hand and put it on his heart. What a foot, my dear
                  fellow! What a glance! A goddess! he added in French.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref127">Now then! Nearly ready? You’re dawdling! he
                  shouted to the servants.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref128">Anatole lay on the sofa in the study leaning on
                  his elbow and smiling pensively, while his handsome lips muttered tenderly to
                  himself.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref129"> Come! Balagá is here. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref156">Yes, indeed, that’s a true sage, thought Pierre.
                  He sees nothing beyond the pleasure of the moment, nothing troubles him and so he
                  is always cheerful, satisfied, and serene. What wouldn’t I give to be like him! he
                  thought enviously.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Preparations</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: PIERRE, ANATOLE, DOLOKHOV</p>



               <p class="flex-para">Pierre runs into Anatole on the street. Pierre is drunk, Anatole
                  in a hurry.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Ah, Anatole! Where are you off to?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Pierre, good man<br /> Tonight I go away, on an
                  adventure<br /> You’ll not be seeing me for some time<br /> I’ve found a new
                  pleasure<br /> And I’m taking her away<br /> I’ll send you a letter from Poland<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> Ha! An elopement!<br /> Fool, you are married already!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Don’t talk to me of that!<br /> I will not
                  deprive myself of this one!<br /> Tonight! I take her tonight!<br /> Lend me fifty rubles?<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref156">Ah, that's a true sage<br /> Living in the moment<br />
                     What I wouldn’t give to be like him!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref119">The plan for Natalie Rostova’s abduction<br /> Had all
                     been arranged and the preparations made<br /> On the day that Sonya decided to
                     save her<br /> That was the day that the game was to be played<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref119">Natasha was to be on her back porch at ten<br /> Anatole
                     and his troika would scoop her up and then<br /> They’d ride forty miles to the
                     village of Kamenka<br /> Where an unfrocked priest was to make ’em get
                     wed<br /> Then back into the troika off they’d go<br /> Take the Poland
                     highroad to the wedding bed<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref120">Passports, horses, ten thousand rubles I have taken from
                     my sister<br /> And another ten thousand raised with Dolokhov’s help<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref121"> Just Anatole, the two wedding witnesses, and me<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref122">An abacus and paper money strewn on the desk<br /> Persian
                     rugs and bearskins hanging grotesque<br />
                     <span class="other">Anatole was walking with his uniform unbuttoned<br />
                        Walking to and fro<br /> To and fro<br /> To and fro<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE, DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br /> Now wait!<br /> You better<br /> Just<br />
                  Give it up now<br /> Why dontcha<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref123">While there’s still time!<br /> You’d really better drop
                     it all<br /> Give it up now!<br /> While there’s still time!<br /> Do you
                     know?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref123">What, teasing again?<br /> Fool don’t talk nonsense!<br />
                     Go to the devil! Eh?<br /> Really this is no time for your stupid jokes<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref124">I am not joking, I am talking sense<br /> This is serious
                     business, a dangerous business<br /> Come here, come here, come here
                     Anatole!<br /> Why would I joke about it?<br /> Me of all people<br /> Who
                     found the priest, raised the money, got the passports, got the horses?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref124">And well I thank you for it<br /> Do you think I am not
                     grateful?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref124">And now you’ll carry her away but will they let it stop
                     there?<br /> You haven’t thought this through or do you just don’t care?<br />
                     Now listen to me tell it to you one last time<br /> They will take you to the
                     court and convict you for your crime<br /> Already married and you’re playing
                     with a little girl<br />
                  </span> Don’t you know, don’t you think, don’t you know?<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref125">Nonsense, nonsense!<br />
                     <span class="self">I’m scowling and grimacing<br />
                     </span> Didn’t I explain it to you, didn’t I, what?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref125"><span class="other">And here Anatole<br /> With the
                        stubborn attachment small-minded people have<br /> For conclusions they’ve
                        worked out for themselves<br /> Repeated his argument to me for the
                        hundredth time<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref125">If this marriage isn’t valid<br /> Then I’m off the
                     hook<br /> But if it is valid, it really doesn’t matter!<br /> No one abroad is
                     gonna know a thing about it<br /> Isn’t that so now don’t you know?<br /> Don’t
                     talk to me, don’t don’t what what<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref126">Ah go to hell now<br />
                     <span class="self">I’m clutching my hair!<br />
                     </span> It’s the very devil!<br /> Here, feel how it beats!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">He presses Dolokhov’s hand to his heart. A light comes up on
                  Natasha across the room.</p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref126">Ah ma chere, ma chere<br /> Quel pied, quel regard!<br />
                     What a foot she has, what a glance!<br /> A goddess!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref128"><span class="self">And my handsome lips<br /> Mutter
                        something tender to myself<br />
                     </span></span> It’s time!<br /> It’s time!<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref127">Now then! Nearly ready? You’re dawdling!<br />
                  </span> The driver is here<br /> The driver is here<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref129">Balaga is here!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
