<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <p>There are no references to <em>War and Peace</em> in this song. The prologue introduces
            all of the characters, as well as the events leading up to Book Eight.</p>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Prologue</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: ALL, PIERRE, NATASHA, SONYA, MARYA D,
                  ANATOLE, HÉLÈNE, DOLOKHOV, MARY, BOLKONSKY</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[PIERRE]<br /> There’s a war going on<br /> Out there
                  somewhere<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br /> There’s a war going on<br /> Out there
                  somewhere<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> There’s a war going on<br /> Out there
                  somewhere<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br /> There’s a war going on<br /> Out there
                  somewhere<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> And this is all in your program<br /> You are at the
                  opera<br /> Gonna have to study up a little bit<br /> If you wanna keep with the
                  plot<br /> 'Cause it’s a complicated Russian novel<br /> Everyone’s got nine
                  different names<br /> So look it up in your program<br /> We’d appreciate it,
                  thanks a lot<br /> Da da da<br /> Da da da<br /> Da da da...<br /> Natasha!<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> Natasha is young<br /> She loves Andrey with all
                  her heart<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> She loves Andrey with all her heart<br /> Natasha is
                  young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> Sonya is good<br /> Natasha’s cousin and closest friend<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Natasha’s cousin and closest friend<br /> Sonya is
                  good<br /> Natasha is young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARYA D]<br /> Marya is old-school, a grande dame of
                  Moscow<br /> Natasha’s godmother, strict yet kind<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Natasha’s godmother, strict yet kind<br /> Marya is
                  old-school<br /> Sonya is good<br /> Natasha is young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> And this is all in your program<br /> You are at the
                  opera<br /> Gonna have to study up a little bit<br /> If you wanna keep with the
                  plot<br /> 'Cause it’s a complicated Russian novel<br /> Everyone’s got nine
                  different names<br /> So look it up in your program<br /> We’d appreciate it,
                  thanks a lot<br /> Da da da<br /> Da da da<br /> Da da da...<br /> Anatole!<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ANATOLE]<br /> Anatole is hot<br /> He spends his money on
                  women and wine<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> He spends his money on women and wine<br /> Anatole
                  is hot<br /> Marya is old-school<br /> Sonya is good<br /> Natasha is young<br />
                  And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[HÉLÈNE]<br /> Hélène is a slut<br /> Anatole’s sister, married
                  to Pierre<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Anatole’s sister, married to Pierre<br /> Hélène is
                  a slut<br /> Anatole is hot<br /> Marya is old-school<br /> Sonya is good<br />
                  Natasha is young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[DOLOKHOV]<br /> Dolokhov is fierce, but not too important<br />
                  Anatole’s friend, a crazy good shot<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Anatole’s friend, a crazy good shot<br /> Dolokhov
                  is fierce<br /> Hélène is a slut<br /> Anatole is hot<br /> Marya is
                  old-school<br /> Sonya is good<br /> Natasha is young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Chandeliers and caviar, the war can’t touch us
                  here<br /> Minor characters!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[BOLKONSKY]<br /> Old Prince Bolkonsky is crazy<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARY]<br /> And Mary is plain<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[MARY, BOLKONSKY]<br /> Andrey’s family, totally messed up<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[BALAGA]<br /> And Balaga’s just for fun!<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> Balaga’s just for fun!<br /> Balaga is fun<br />
                  Bolkonsky is crazy<br /> Mary is plain<br /> Dolokhov is fierce<br /> Hélène is a
                  slut<br /> Anatole is hot<br /> Marya is old-school<br /> Sonya is good<br />
                  Natasha is young<br /> And Andrey isn’t here<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[ALL]<br /> And what about Pierre?<br /> Dear, bewildered and
                  awkward Pierre?<br /> What about Pierre?<br /> Rich, unhappily married
                  Pierre?<br /> What about Pierre?<br /> What about Pierre?<br /> What about Pierre?<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
