<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref116">Hard as it was for Sónya, she watched her friend
                  and did not let her out of her sight. The day before the count was to return,
                  Sónya noticed that Natásha sat by the drawing room window all the morning as if
                  expecting something and that she made a sign to an officer who drove past, whom
                  Sónya took to be Anatole. Sónya began watching her friend still more attentively
                  and noticed that at dinner and all that evening Natásha was in a strange and
                  unnatural state. She answered questions at random, began sentences she did not
                  finish, and laughed at everything.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref117">After tea Sónya noticed a housemaid at Natásha’s
                  door timidly waiting to let her pass. She let the girl go in, and then listening
                  at the door learned that another letter had been delivered. Then suddenly it
                  became clear to Sónya that Natásha had some dreadful plan for that evening. Sónya
                  knocked at her door. Natásha did not let her in.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref118">She will run away with him! thought Sónya. She is
                  capable of anything. There was something particularly pathetic and resolute in her
                  face today. She cried as she said good-by to Uncle, Sónya remembered. Yes, that’s
                  it, she means to elope with him, but what am I to do? thought she, recalling all
                  the signs that clearly indicated that Natásha had some terrible intention. The
                  count is away. What am I to do? Write to Kurágin demanding an explanation? But
                  what is there to oblige him to reply? Write to Pierre, as Prince Andrew asked me
                  to in case of some misfortune?... But perhaps she really has already refused
                  Bolkónski—she sent a letter to Princess Mary yesterday. And Uncle is away.... To
                  tell Márya Dmítrievna who had such faith in Natásha seemed to Sónya terrible.
                  Well, anyway, thought Sónya as she stood in the dark passage, now or never I must
                  prove that I remember the family’s goodness to me and that I love Nicholas. Yes!
                  If I don’t sleep for three nights I’ll not leave this passage and will hold her
                  back by force and will and not let the family be disgraced, thought she.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Sonya Alone</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: SONYA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref116">Hard as it is<br /> In the coming days<br /> I watch my
                     friend<br /> In her strange unnatural state<br /> Don’t let her out of my sight<br />
                     <span class="other">She trails off<br /> Stares at nothing<br /> Laughs at
                        random<br />
                     </span></span> And the letters come<br />
                  <span class="other">She waits by the window<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref117"><span class="self">And I listen at the door<br />
                     </span></span> Until one day<br /> I see by the sad look on her face<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref117">There is a dreadful plan in her heart<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> I know you are capable of anything<br /> I know
                  you so well my friend<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref118">I know you might just run away<br /> What am I to
                     do?<br /> Who do I ask for help?<br />
                  </span> Is it all on me?<br /> Is it all on me?<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref118">I will stand in the dark for you<br /> I will hold you
                     back by force<br /> I will stand here right outside your door<br /> I won’t see
                     you disgraced<br /> I will protect your name and your heart<br />
                  </span> Because I miss my friend<br />
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> I know you’ve forgotten me<br /> I know you so
                  well my friend<br /> I know you might just throw yourself over<br /> But I won’t
                  let you<br /> I won’t let you<br /> It’s all on me<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref118">And I remember this family<br /> I remember their
                     kindness<br /> And if I never sleep again<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref118">I will stand in the dark for you<br /> I will hold you
                     back by force<br /> I will stand here right outside your door<br /> I won’t see
                     you disgraced<br /> I will protect your name and your heart<br />
                  </span> Because I miss my friend<br /> Because I miss my friend<br /> Because I
                  miss you, my friend<br />
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
