<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Lyrics</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/text_display.css" />
      <link rel="icon" type="image/jpeg" href="../img/IMG-1339.jpeg" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="../menu.xhtml" -->
      <!--#include virtual ="../text_sidenav.xhtml" -->
      <div class="main">
         <h2>Texts</h2>
         <div class="flex-container">
            <div class="flex-child">
               <h3 class="flex-header">Book 8 References</h3>
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref108">How was it I noticed nothing? How could it go so
                  far? Can she have left off loving Prince Andrew? And how could she let Kurágin go
                  to such lengths? He is a deceiver and a villain, that’s plain! What will Nicholas,
                  dear noble Nicholas, do when he hears of it? So this is the meaning of her
                  excited, resolute, unnatural look the day before yesterday, yesterday, and today,
                  thought Sónya. But it can’t be that she loves him! She probably opened the letter
                  without knowing who it was from. Probably she is offended by it. She could not do
                  such a thing!</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref109">Natásha! she said, just audibly. Natásha awoke
                  and saw Sónya. Ah, you’re back?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref110">And with the decision and tenderness that often
                  come at the moment of awakening, she embraced her friend, but noticing Sónya’s
                  look of embarrassment, her own face expressed confusion and suspicion.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref111"> Sónya, you’ve read that letter? she demanded.
                  Yes, answered Sónya softly. Natásha smiled rapturously. No, Sónya, I can’t any
                  longer! she said. I can’t hide it from you any longer. You know, we love one
                  another! Sónya, darling, he writes... Sónya... Sónya stared open-eyed at Natásha,
                  unable to believe her ears. And Bolkónski? she asked. Ah, Sónya, if you only knew
                  how happy I am! cried Natásha. You don’t know what love is.... But, Natásha, can
                  that be all over? Natásha looked at Sónya with wide-open eyes as if she could not
                  grasp the question. Well, then, are you refusing Prince Andrew? said Sónya. Oh,
                  you don’t understand anything! Don’t talk nonsense, just listen! said Natásha,
                  with momentary vexation. But I can’t believe it, insisted Sónya. I don’t
                  understand. How is it you have loved a man for a whole year and suddenly... Why,
                  you have only seen him three times! Natásha, I don’t believe you, you’re joking!
                  In three days to forget everything and so... Three days? said Natásha. It seems to
                  me I’ve loved him a hundred years. It seems to me that I have never loved anyone
                  before. You can’t understand it.... Sónya, wait a bit, sit here, and Natásha
                  embraced and kissed her. I had heard that it happens like this, and you must have
                  heard it too, but it’s only now that I feel such love. It’s not the same as
                  before. As soon as I saw him I felt he was my master and I his slave, and that I
                  could not help loving him. Yes, his slave! Whatever he orders I shall do. You
                  don’t understand that. What can I do? What can I do, Sónya? cried Natásha with a
                  happy yet frightened expression. But think what you are doing, cried Sónya. I
                  can’t leave it like this. This secret correspondence... How could you let him go
                  so far? she went on, with a horror and disgust she could hardly conceal. I told
                  you that I have no will, Natásha replied. Why can’t you understand? I love him!
                  Then I won’t let it come to that... I shall tell! cried Sónya, bursting into
                  tears. What do you mean? For God’s sake... If you tell, you are my enemy! declared
                  Natásha. You want me to be miserable, you want us to be separated.... When she saw
                  Natásha’s fright, Sónya shed tears of shame and pity for her friend. But what has
                  happened between you? she asked. What has he said to you? Why doesn’t he come to
                  the house? Natásha did not answer her questions. For God’s sake, Sónya, don’t tell
                  anyone, don’t torture me, Natásha entreated. Remember no one ought to interfere in
                  such matters! I have confided in you.... But why this secrecy? Why doesn’t he come
                  to the house? asked Sónya. Why doesn’t he openly ask for your hand? You know
                  Prince Andrew gave you complete freedom—if it is really so; but I don’t believe
                  it! Natásha, have you considered what these secret reasons can be? Natásha looked
                  at Sónya with astonishment. Evidently this question presented itself to her mind
                  for the first time and she did not know how to answer it. I don’t know what the
                  reasons are. But there must be reasons! Sónya sighed and shook her head
                  incredulously. If there were reasons... she began. But Natásha, guessing her
                  doubts, interrupted her in alarm. Sónya, one can’t doubt him! One can’t, one
                  can’t! Don’t you understand? she cried. Does he love you? Does he love me? Natásha
                  repeated with a smile of pity at her friend’s lack of comprehension. Why, you have
                  read his letter and you have seen him. But if he is dishonorable? He!
                  dishonorable? If you only knew! exclaimed Natásha. If he is an honorable man he
                  should either declare his intentions or cease seeing you; and if you won’t do
                  this, I will. I will write to him, and I will tell Papa! said Sónya resolutely.
                  But I can’t live without him! cried Natásha. Natásha, I don’t understand you. And
                  what are you saying! Think of your father and of Nicholas. I don’t want anyone, I
                  don’t love anyone but him. How dare you say he is dishonorable? Don’t you know
                  that I love him? screamed Natásha. Go away, Sónya! I don’t want to quarrel with
                  you, but go, for God’s sake go! You see how I am suffering! Natásha cried angrily,
                  in a voice of despair and repressed irritation. Sónya burst into sobs and ran from
                  the room. </p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref112">Natásha went to the table and without a moment’s
                  reflection wrote that answer to Princess Mary which she had been unable to write
                  all the morning. In this letter she said briefly that all their misunderstandings
                  were at an end; that availing herself of the magnanimity of Prince Andrew who when
                  he went abroad had given her her freedom, she begged Princess Mary to forget
                  everything and forgive her if she had been to blame toward her, but that she could
                  not be his wife. At that moment this all seemed quite easy, simple, and clear to
                  Natásha.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref113">Oh, Sónya, if you knew him as I do! He said... He
                  asked me what I had promised Bolkónski. He was glad I was free to refuse him.
                  Sónya sighed sorrowfully. But you haven’t refused Bolkónski? said she. Perhaps I
                  have. Perhaps all is over between me and Bolkónski. Why do you think so badly of
                  me?</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref114">Sónya did not succumb to the tender tone Natásha
                  used toward her. The more emotional and ingratiating the expression of Natásha’s
                  face became, the more serious and stern grew Sónya’s.</p>
               <hr />
               <p class="flex-para" id="wp-ref115">Natásha, I am afraid for you! Afraid of what? I
                  am afraid you’re going to your ruin, said Sónya resolutely, and was herself
                  horrified at what she had said. Anger again showed in Natásha’s face. And I’ll go
                  to my ruin, I will, as soon as possible! It’s not your business! It won’t be you,
                  but I, who’ll suffer. Leave me alone, leave me alone! I hate you! Natásha! moaned
                  Sónya, aghast. I hate you, I hate you! You’re my enemy forever! And Natásha ran
                  out of the room.</p>
               <hr />
            </div>
            <div class="flex-child">

               <h3 class="flex-header"><q>Sonya and Natasha</q></h3>
               <p class="flex-para">Featured Characters: SONYA, NATASHA</p>



               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref108">How was it I noticed nothing?<br /> How could it go so
                     far?<br /> It can’t be that she loves him<br /> It can’t be<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref109">Natasha<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Natasha awakes and sees Sonya.</p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref109">Sonya, you’re back<br />
                  </span>
                  <span class="wp-ref110"><span class="self">And with the tender resolve that often
                        comes at the moment of awakening<br /> I embraced my friend<br /> But
                        noticing Sonya’s look of embarrassment<br /> My face expressed
                        confusion<br /> And suspicion<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <span class="111">Sonya, you’ve read the letter?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Yes<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Oh Sonya, I’m glad<br /> I can’t hide it any longer!<br />
                     Now you know, we love one another!<br /> Oh Sonya, he writes, he writes<br />
                     He writes, he writes, he writes<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">And Andrey?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Oh Sonya, if you only knew how happy I am!<br /> You don’t
                     know what love is<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">But Natasha, can that all be over?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">I do not grasp the question<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Are you refusing Prince Andrey?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Oh, you don’t understand anything!<br /> Don’t talk
                     nonsense, just listen<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">But I can’t believe it, I don’t understand<br /> How you
                     loved one man a whole year<br /> And suddenly—<br /> You’ve only known him
                     three days!<br /> Natasha, you're joking!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Three days?<br /> It seems to me I’ve loved him a hundred
                     years<br /> It seems to me I’ve never loved anyone before<br /> Not like
                     this<br /> I have no will<br /> My life is his<br /> I’ll do anything he wants
                     me to<br /> What can I do?<br /> Sonya, what can I do?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br /> I’m so happy<br /> And so frightened<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Why can’t you understand?<br /> I love him!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Then I won’t let it come to that, I shall tell!<br />
                     <span class="self">Bursting into tears<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">What do you mean?<br /> For God’s sake, if you tell, you
                     are my enemy!<br /> You want me to be miserable<br /> You want to tear us
                     apart<br /> For God’s sake, Sonya, don’t tell anyone, don’t torture me<br /> I
                     have confided in you<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">What has happened between you?<br /> What has he said to
                     you?<br /> Why doesn’t he come to the house and openly ask for your hand?<br />
                     Why this secrecy?<br /> Have you thought what his secret reasons may be?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">I don’t know what the reasons are<br /> But there must be
                     reasons!<br /> Sonya, one can’t doubt him!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Does he love you?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref111">Does he love me?<br /> Why, you’ve read his letter, you’ve
                     seen him<br /> I can’t live without him<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br /> Natasha, think of our family<br /> And think of
                  Prince Andrey<br />
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref113">Andrey said I was free to refuse him<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref113">But you haven’t refused him, or have you?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref113">Perhaps I have<br /> Perhaps all is over between me and
                     Bolkonsky<br /> Would you think so badly of me?<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>




               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref114">I won’t succumb to your tender tone Natasha<br />
                  </span> I don’t trust him, Natasha!<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref115">I’m afraid for you, Natasha!<br /> Afraid you are going to
                     your ruin<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref115">Then I’ll go to my ruin, yes I will, as soon as
                     possible!<br /> But it’s not your business!<br /> It won’t be you, it’ll be me,
                     who’ll suffer<br /> Leave me alone, yes leave me alone!<br /> I hate you
                     Sonya!<br /> I hate you Sonya!<br /> I hate you, I hate you!<br /> You’re my
                     enemy forever!<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[SONYA]<br />
                  <span class="self">I burst into sobs<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">Natasha runs out of the room.</p>




               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref112"><span class="self">And without a moment’s reflection<br />
                        I wrote the answer to Princess Mary<br /> I’d been unable to write all
                        morning<br />
                     </span></span>
                  <br /></p>


               <p class="flex-para">[NATASHA]<br />
                  <span class="wp-ref112">All our misunderstandings are at an end<br /> Forget
                     everything and forgive me<br /> But I can’t be Andrey’s wife<br />
                  </span>
                  <br /></p>


            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
